.TH IPMASQ-RULE 5
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.SH NAME
ipmasq-rule \- rules file used to set up IP Masquerading
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/ipmasq/rules/*.{rul,def}
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents the rules files used by the
.B ipmasq
command.  
.B ipmasq
sources these rules files using
.BR sh (1).
Only those files ending with the extensions
.I \.rul
or
.I \.def
are sourced, so as to prevent old rules (for example, left around by editor backups) from being put back into service.
.PP
.B ipmasq
sources the rules files by listing the files in the directory
.I /etc/ipmasq/rules
with the extensions
.I \.rul
or
.IR \.def \.
This list is sorted, and for each basename, the
.I \.rul
rule is sourced if it exists, otherwise the
.I \.def
rule is sourced.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES AVAILABLE TO RULES"
The following environment variables are available to rules:
.IP PATH
The
.I PATH
for rules is explicitly set to "/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin:/sbin".
.IP EXTERNAL_OUT
Names of the interfaces currently sending packets outbound from the system
to external networks.
.IP EXTERNAL_IN
Names of the interfaces currently receiving packets inbound to the system
from external networks.
.IP EXTERNAL
Names of the interfaces currently connected to external networks.  This is
a combination of
.B EXTERNAL_OUT
and
.BR EXTERNAL_IN .
.IP INTERNAL
Names of all the interfaces on the system currently up and configured with an
IP address and netmask, with the exception of the loopback interface (lo), and
.BR EXTERNAL .
.IP IPFWADM
Path to the ipfwadm utility.  Use of this variable is recommended, as its use
will automatically support the --display, --no-act, and --verbose options of
.BR ipmasq (8).
.IP IPCHAINS
Path to the ipchains utility.  Use of this variable is recommended, as its use
will automatically support the --display, --no-act, and --verbose options of
.BR ipmasq (8).
.IP IPTABLES
Path to the iptables utility.  Use of this variable is recommended, as its use
will automatically support the --display, --no-act, and --verbose options of
.BR ipamsq (8).
.IP MASQMETHOD
One of
.IR ipfwadm ,
.I ipchains
or
.I netfilter
depending on the interface of the currently running kernel.
.IP SHOWRULES
Set to
.I yes
if
.BR ipmasq (8)
has been called with either the
.I --display
or the
.I --verbose
flag, indicating the user wishes rules to be displayed.
.IP NOACT
Set to
.I yes
if
.BR ipmasq (8)
has been called with either the
.I --display
or the
.I --no-act
flag, indicating the user wishes rules not to be executed.
.SH "SHELL FUNCTIONS AVAILABLE TO RULES"
The following shell functions are available to rules:
.IP ipnm_cache
In order to speed the creation of the ruleset, the IP address and netmask
of the interfaces listed in
.B INTERNAL
and
.B EXTERNAL
are cached.  Call
.B ipnm_cache
.I interface
to retrieve the cached information.  The IP address, netmask, point-to-point
peer, and broadcast address are returned in the environment variables
.BR IPOFIF ,
.BR NMOFIF ,
.BR PEEROFIF ,
and
.B BCOFIF
respectively.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/ipmasq/rules/*.def
.RS
Package defined default rules files.  Do not edit, instead create a
.I \.rul
file.
.RE
.I /etc/ipmasq/rules/*.rul
.RS
User defined rules files.  Each overrides the corresponding
.I \.def
file.
.SH CAVEATS
Previous versions of
.BR ipmasq (8)
guaranteed that rule files would be sourced using
.BR bash (1).
However, since
.BR bash (1)
is a resource hog, especially on systems often used as ipmasq boxes, this
guarantee was removed as of ipmasq version 3.3.3.  Check your rules files
for ``bashisms.''
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ipmasq "(8), " sh "(1), " ipofif "(8), " nmofif "(8), " peerofif "(8), " bcofif "(8), " default-if "(8), " enumerate-if "(8), " ipfwadm "(8), " ipchains "(8), " iptables (8)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Brian Bassett <brianb@debian.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
